Backend setup

1. Created the backend package

   Command:
   cd backend
   npm init -y

   Why:
   This creates package.json so the backend can track npm scripts, project metadata,
   and installed dependencies.

2. Enabled ES modules

   package.json setting:
   "type": "module"

   Why:
   This allows the backend to use modern import/export syntax instead of CommonJS
   require/module.exports.

3. Installed runtime dependencies

   Command:
   npm install express mongoose dotenv cors zod

   Why these dependencies are used:
   - express: Creates the HTTP API server and defines backend routes/middleware.
   - mongoose: Connects the app to MongoDB and provides schemas/models for data.
   - dotenv: Loads environment variables from a .env file, such as database URLs
     and server configuration.
   - cors: Allows the backend API to accept requests from a frontend running on a
     different origin during development or deployment.
   - zod: Validates request data and other runtime inputs with explicit schemas.

4. Installed development dependency

   Command:
   npm install --save-dev nodemon

   Why:
   nodemon restarts the backend automatically when source files change, making
   local development faster.

5. Installed backend authentication and security dependencies

   Command:
   npm install bcryptjs express-mongo-sanitize express-rate-limit helmet jsonwebtoken

   Why these dependencies are used:
   - bcryptjs: Hashes passwords before storing them and compares login passwords
     against saved hashes.
   - express-mongo-sanitize: Removes MongoDB operator characters from incoming
     request data to reduce NoSQL injection risk.
   - express-rate-limit: Limits repeated requests from the same client, which helps
     protect login and API routes from brute force or spam.
   - helmet: Sets common HTTP security headers for the Express app.
   - jsonwebtoken: Creates and verifies JWTs for stateless authentication and
     protected API routes.

6. Added backend run scripts

   package.json scripts:
   "start": "node server.js"
   "dev": "nodemon server.js"

   Why:
   start runs the backend normally, while dev runs it through nodemon so the server
   restarts automatically during development.


Frontend setup

1. Created the frontend React app

   Command:
   npm create vite@latest frontend -- --template react

   Why:
   This scaffolds a React frontend powered by Vite, including the basic project
   structure, index.html, src folder, development scripts, and build tooling.

2. Installed frontend dependencies

   Command:
   cd frontend
   npm install

   Why:
   This installs the dependencies declared by the Vite React scaffold so the
   frontend can run locally, build for production, and lint source files.

   Runtime dependencies:
   - react: Provides the component model and state/rendering system for building
     the user interface.
   - react-dom: Connects React components to the browser DOM so the app can render
     inside index.html.

   Development dependencies:
   - vite: Runs the frontend development server and creates optimized production
     builds.
   - @vitejs/plugin-react: Adds React support to Vite, including JSX handling and
     React refresh during development.
   - eslint: Checks frontend source code for common mistakes and style issues.
   - @eslint/js: Provides the base JavaScript ESLint rules used by the config.
   - eslint-plugin-react-hooks: Enforces correct usage of React Hooks.
   - eslint-plugin-react-refresh: Helps keep React Fast Refresh compatible by
     warning about patterns that can break hot updates.
   - globals: Provides known browser and JavaScript global variables for the ESLint
     configuration.
   - @types/react: Provides TypeScript type definitions for React APIs.
   - @types/react-dom: Provides TypeScript type definitions for React DOM APIs.

3. Installed Tailwind CSS for the frontend

   Command:
   npm install tailwindcss @tailwindcss/vite

   Why these dependencies are used:
   - tailwindcss: Provides utility-first CSS classes for styling the React
     frontend.
   - @tailwindcss/vite: Connects Tailwind CSS to the Vite build pipeline so
     Tailwind styles are processed during development and production builds.

   Related configuration:
   - vite.config.js imports @tailwindcss/vite and adds tailwindcss() to the Vite
     plugins array.
   - src/index.css imports Tailwind with @import "tailwindcss";
